title: Australia needs to get smartauthor: Daniel Kjellssoncategory: Mediadate: 2012-11-01__Wayne Gretzky__, the greatest hockey player of all time, once said “I skateto where the puck is going to be, not where it has been.” Since it was firstsaid (sometime during the eighties, I believe) a lot of people have adopted theconcept; the late __Apple__ CEO, __Steve Jobs__, for one.On October 27, __The Financial Review__ reported about a dinner held in Sydney.A group of “leading scientists” from industry and academia came together todiscuss the future of computer science and its effect on business in Australia.In his report, FR journalist[__Tony Boyd__](https://twitter.com/Tony__Boyd/ "Tony Boyd") quotes ananonymous computer science PHD “optimist” debating the fact that the internethas “lowered the barriers to entry in just about every sector of the economy”.In other words, creative destruction could see as many new jobs created asthose that are lost.Turning to our own sector – media – the situation is serious. Print media willdisappear and TV will see its business disrupted by new behavioural patterns ofconsumption. Upon that advertisers will evolve into creating media platforms oftheir own. The average traditional media company is ill suited for this newrevenue reality. Thousands of Australian jobs will consequently be lost.__The Australian Academy of Science__ have prepared a report titled“Future Science – Computer Science, Meeting the Scale Challenge”. The reportsays it’s “vital Australia operate in the forefront of the wave of opportunitypresented by the pervasiveness of computing power such as lifting nationalproductivity, significantly increasing national wealth and creating entirelynew enterprises and categories of work”.We are such a new enterprise. Digital publisher __Sydney Stockholm__ is anAustralian media company created entirely out of digital conditions. Not onlywell prepared for an ever disruptive environment and revenue stream but bornout of them. We do not believe in media brands such as magazine titles and TVshows; we believe in individuals. One individual will write or talk and crowdswill consume. The cost for an individual to broadcast is low, the, a  majorityof the revenue belongs to the content producer and the commercial offer is notonly exactly measurable but personalised and creative beyond a simplead placement.Sydney Stockholm will not be alone for long; independent publishing will becomeubiquitous. Even the large traditional players will attempt to rebuild in orderto adapt and entirely new enterprises and categories of work will emerge. Todayall markets are global and to save Australian jobs we need to create Australianbusinesses. Creative destruction could see as many new jobs created as thosethat are lost. Through companies like ours.Back at the computer science dinner, __Chris Roberts__ from healthcare-techgiant __Cochlear__ was delivering his long term solution. Robert was quoted assaying that Australian education “focuses too much on critical thinking skills”rather than on developing people in a mix of science, technology, creativityand design. Roberts recommended mixing science and engineering with studies inhumanities.Funny, that’s what a smart guy from Cupertino said.